Ryan 21001 beta (#1933)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2021-11-30-beta-release-post.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "MicroProfile 5, MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0 and JPA enhancements in 22.0.0.1-beta"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ryan-storey
author_github: https://github.com/ryan-storey

> seo-title: MicroProfile 5, MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0 and JPA enhancements in Open Liberty 22.0.0.1-beta - OpenLiberty.io

Author: ```suggestion
seo-title: MicroProfile 5, MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0 and JPA enhancements in 22.0.0.1-beta - OpenLiberty.io
```

seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.1-beta offers MicroProfile 5.0 and MicroPrifle Rest Client 3.0, which align with Jakarta EE 9.1. Also available in this beta release is an enhancement to JPA which provides the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties. 
blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.1-beta offers MicroProfile 5.0 and MicroPrifle Rest Client 3.0, which align with Jakarta EE 9.1. Also available in this beta release is an enhancement to JPA which provides the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties. 
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= MicroProfile updates and enhancements to JPA persistence properties in Open Liberty 22.0.0.1-beta
Ryan Storey <https://github.com/ryan-storey>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

Open Liberty 22.0.0.1-beta offers MicroProfile 5.0 and MicroPrifle Rest Client 3.0, which align with Jakarta EE 9.1. Also available in this beta release is an enhancement to JPA which provides the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties.

> For 22.0.0.1-beta, We have a single beta packages for link:{url-about}[Open Liberty]:

Author: ```suggestion
For 22.0.0.1-beta, there is a single beta package for link:{url-about}[Open Liberty]:
```

* link:http://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-rest-client-3.0-RC5/apidocs/[MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0 API Javadoc]

[#jpa_persistence]
=== Define JPA persistence properties at server scope

This new JPA enhancement adds the ability to declare "default" JPA persistence properties, to all container-managed persistence contexts, as a Liberty server.xml configuration.

Previously, if a persistence property needed to be set for all persistence.xml configuration files, you would manually update all persistence.xml files in all applications. This could end up requiring hundreds of manual updates and/or rebuilding of applications.
With this enhancement, you can specify persistence properties, in the server.xml, that will propagate to all container-managed persistence units for applications installed on that server.

In order to start using the new feature, you only need to add the new `<defaultProperties>` configuration to your `<jpa>` configuration, in server.xml, along with the persistence properties that you want to apply to all container-managed persistence units:

> *Example 1:*

Author: ```suggestion
===== Example 1:
```

[source, xml]
----
<server>
    <featureManager>
        <feature>persistenceContainer-3.0</feature>
    </featureManager>

    <jpa defaultPersistenceProvider="org.hibernate.jpa.HibernatePersistenceProvider">
        <defaultProperties>
            <property name="javax.persistence.lock.timeout" value="4000"/>
            <property name="hibernate.dialect" value="org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle12cDialect"/>
        </defaultProperties>
    </jpa>
</server>
----

> *Example 2:*

Author: ```suggestion
===== Example 2:
```

[source, xml]
----
<server>
    <featureManager>
        <feature>jpa-2.1</feature>
    </featureManager>

    <jpa>
        <defaultProperties>
            <property name="javax.persistence.lock.timeout" value="12345"/>
            <property name="eclipselink.cache.shared.default" value="false"/>
        </defaultProperties>
    </jpa>
</server>
----

> *Technical description*

Author: ```suggestion
==== Technical description
```
